Let's talk about
the inverted index. So previously, we
talked about calculating relative frequencies
for co-occurring terms. In this section, we'll see how
to calculate similarity scores between co-occurring terms. And we'll introduce the
idea of the inverted index. In its basic form,
the inverted index consists of postings lists, one
associated with each term that appears in the collection. And a postings list is comprised
of individual postings, each of which consists of a
document ID and a payload. So the payload is
information about occurrences of the term in the document. The simplest payload is nothing. For simple Boolean retrieval,
no additional information is needed in the posting
other than the document ID. The existence of
the posting itself indicates the presence of
the term in the document. So the most common
payload, however, is the term frequency,
or the number of times that the term occurs
in the document. So I might have a
term and a posting where d1 represents the
ID of the document and p here represents
the number of times that that term occurs
in the document. The size of an
inverted index varies. So depending on the payload
stored in each posting, obviously. And if the term
frequency is stored, a well-optimized inverted
index can be about 1/10 of the size of the original
document collection. Obviously, the more additional
information you store, the larger this becomes. Generally, it is possible to
hold the entire vocabulary in memory. So the original, and probably
the most common, application of the inverted index is in
the context of information retrieval, as just discussed. However, the inverted
index data structure itself can be very useful
for algorithm design at scale in our
MapReduce-type framework. And we'll be focusing on
similarity calculations for the rest of this section. Some examples of
similarity measures used in machine
learning are things like earth mover's
distance, cosine similarity, Euclidean distance,
Jaccard, overlap, dice. All these are sensitive to
different aspects of the data. In machine learning,
cosine similarity is often used in applications
such as data mining and information retrieval. So for example, a
database of documents can be processed such
that each term is assigned a dimension and an associated
vector corresponding to the frequency of that
term in the document. And this allows for a cosine
similarity measurement to distinguish and
compare documents based on their vectors
to each other based on their similarities and
overlap in subject matter. So what is cosine similarity? Cosine similarity
measures the sine of the angle between
two non-zero vectors of the inner product space. This similarity measurement
is particularly concerned with orientation
rather than magnitude. So in short, two
cosine vectors that are aligned in the
same orientation will have a similarity
measurement of 1, whereas two vectors
aligned perpendicularly you will have a similarity of 0. If two vectors are
diametrically opposed, meaning that they are
oriented in exactly the opposite directions,
back-to-back, then the similarity
measurement is negative 1. Cosine similarity is not
concerned and does not measure differences
in magnitude, i.e. the length of the vectors. It is only a representation of
similarities and orientation. So word similarity
and dissimilarity is measured to be a
cosine similarity, which has a very nice property of
being between negative 1 and 1. And perfect similarity
between two words will yield a score of 1. So these are vectors pointing
in the same direction. No correlation will yield 0. So perpendicular vectors,
which can be seen in the figure in the middle. And negative 1 means that
they mean opposite things. You've probably heard of
Word2Vec as word embeddings as vectors. So cosine similarity is most
often used with Word2Vec. Regardless, though, of
how we generate them, once the words are
represented by vectors, the task of finding
similar or dissimilar words becomes a lot easier. So any combination of vectors
result in a new vector. And the cosine distances
or similarity measures can be used to
calculate similarities between these words. These operations underlie
the famous equation king minus man plus
woman equals queen. Just a note that cosine
similarity function for the Word2Vec algorithm, just
a CBO implementation in Spark, is already baked
into MLlib if you want to use that in the future. We're not actually going
to implement Word2Vec here. However, we'll use
cosine similarity to measure similarity
between word pairs based on the intuition
that if two words occur in similar contexts
enough times, then these words are similar. So here's a simple example. We have the sentence "one should
wear business attire to work" and the sentence
"one should wear business clothing to work." Because both attire and
clothing are surrounded by the same words, i.e.
they're in the same context, we can infer that attire
is similar to clothing. Now, a single
example isn't going to be particularly informative. However, if attire and clothing
appear in similar context enough times, we can infer that
they are similar in meaning. All right, so how do we go
about computing these at scale? So let's first
consider how we're going to define the context. Let's say that the context
is a five-word window with two words on the left
and two words on the right. In other words, we can say
that the word attire co-occurs with the words wear,
business, to, and work. So that's the
context for attire-- wear, business, to, and work. Next, we'll want to represent
these co-occurrences in a data structure that will
be amenable for computation. OK, so we can construct
a binary matrix where the columns are the words
from our chosen vocabulary. And you can think of these
as the features to our model. So here, f1, f2, and
f3 represent words within our vocabulary. The rows are the
words from the corpus. So these are words that
appear in our training data. And an entry of 1
indicates that the words co-occur in a five-word window,
and a 0 that they do not. So this will inevitably
result in a very sparse matrix with many 0's, which
wastes a lot of disk space. So a more compact
representation, like the stripes on the
right is a better format, especially when
working at scale. For the sake of simplicity
of this example, we'll say that words which
share the most features are most similar. So just a note here that
this is not cosine similarity that we're calculating here. In order to calculate
cosine similarity, we would also need to
include some other pieces of information, which would
just obscure our example. So bear with me for
the moment while I explain kind of the intuition
behind the algorithm. So in our small example,
the words wear and attire have two features
in common, right? Wear and entire share feature 1,
and they also share feature 3. So we're saying that the number
of features in common is 2. Wear and business share
a single peak feature. So they both share f2. Hence, their score is 1. Notice that in order to
count the number of features in common, we need access
to both all of the rows as well as all of the columns. And as you can imagine,
doing this in memory on a very large data
set is not tractable. So can we do this in parallel? Remember our stripes
data structure from a couple of slides ago. Imagine that each stripe
resides on its own block. And thus, by default, we
have three tasks which should be executed in parallel. A brute force
approach is possible. But given that each task has no
knowledge of any other task-- so in other words, they're
being computed completely independently-- in order
to bring this information together, we would
need to do some pretty fancy footwork in how we design
our keys, our complex keys. But more importantly, we'd
be emitting a lot of data to the stream that is
redundant, potentially causing expensive spills
to memory or even to disk. It turns out that
there is another way. And of course, you
knew this was coming. And this is the inverted index. So the inverted
index is nothing more than a stripes representation
of the transpose of our original matrix. This time, the words which
share a feature reside on the same partition. So now our keys
are the features, and the words that
share the feature are listed in the stripe. Each task outputs its own
word pair combinations. And reduce phase can simply
aggregate these pairs by doing a simple sum. No unnecessary data is
emitted into the stream. And the algorithm
has a simplicity that is a welcome departure
from the potentially complex and error-prone
composite keys and values from the previous approach. So to calculate actual
cosine similarities, we'll need to pass along
some additional information in the payloads
from our mappers. But the principle of
transposing the original matrix to make this computationally
feasible remains the same. And you will be implementing
this notion in your homework.