Pairs and stripes. So with the
fundamentals covered, let's revisit some design
patterns we learned in Hadoop and go one step
further looking at how we can utilize smart data
structures to design even more efficient algorithms. We'll take our word
count to the next level by calculating not just
single words, but pairs of words that occur together. In other words,
co-occurring terms. Later, we'll see how we can
leverage this new knowledge to build an inverted
index, a fundamental data structure in the domain
of information retrieval. We'll use these
patterns in homework to do synonym detection. OK, we're going to continue
our discussion here around synchronization
in streams. Previously, we've looked at some
pretty straightforward examples of this where we synchronized
around a particular customer ID. And we got the average
amount spent by the customer. Now, let's up the
ante and explore more challenging examples,
which are more combinatorially explosive before synchronizing
down to a solution space. So one common approach
for synchronization in a MapReduce-style
framework is to construct complex keys
and values in such a way that the data necessary
for computation are naturally brought together
by the execution framework. We first touched
on this technique last week in terms
of packaging together partial sums and counts in
a complex value or pair that is passed from the mapper to
the combiner to the reducer. Now, let's look at an example
of market basket analysis. Here, if I'm a shop owner, I'm
interested in the buying habits of-- or patterns of customers. And this is very much part
of the data mining field. We're always looking
for patterns. We're always looking
for correlations. And sometimes, we
leverage these patterns to make our business
more optimal. So for example, we might
co-locate the diapers and beer on the same aisle
because on Friday night, we've observed that people
generally buy beer and diapers on their way home from work. And that, by the
way, is an urban myth and doesn't actually happen. Just an example. OK, so what we're looking at
here is a co-occurrence matrix. We're looking at where
events of items co-occur. In this case, we're
looking at where two items are in the same
basket of a customer. So effectively, what
we're doing here is we're building a
square matrix which looks at, say, orange juice. And we're saying, how
many baskets were there where a customer bought
orange juice and window cleaner together? So we have orange juice
and window cleaner. And it turns out we've
got one such customer. So similarly, we can look
at window cleaner and soda. So window cleaner and soda. And again, there's one customer
that bought window cleaner and soda together. So this is our
co-occurrence matrix for market basket
analysis, and it has a symmetric relationship. Now, this also happens to
be a very important concept in natural language
processing, where we might be looking at
term co-occurrence or word co-occurrences. We want to see, where
do words co-occur? And this can be very
useful in practice in determining the meaning or
semantics of a particular word or phrase. So here we construct this
co-occurrence matrix. This is a little bit different
to the basket analysis from the previous example. The idea here is that we might
have a corpus of, let's say, a bunch of letters,
here in this case a highly contrived example. And we might look at
co-occurrence being defined as words that co-occur
in a window of size 2 on either side of a
particular word of interest. So for example, if you
look at the first word A, then it occurs with D,
and then it occurs with C. And in our process to generate
this co-occurrence matrix, we're going to basically
window across the corpus, constructing these
co-occurrence instances. And then we're going
to update our counters in the co-occurrence matrix. So for example, we will update
the count of AD initially. Then we'll take the next
co-occurring pair AC. So I'll just go up here. AD. The next pair is AC. And we'll keep windowing
across the corpus until we will come to the end. And so the last update
from this corpus will be the
co-occurrence of E and D. And we can see that
for D and E, they co-occur at a frequency
of 4, so E then D. There's no particular
order associated with the terms in the corpus. So this is a symmetric
relationship. But sometimes, we might
have the requirement that the first word is
always the first word. So for example, having
a word pair like the dog is not the same as dog the. And next, we'll
want to explore how we could build such a matrix
at scale over a large text collection. So the reasons for building
this type of co-current matrix are many. But as I alluded to earlier,
by having these distribution profiles, they can be used to
measure semantic similarity or semantic distance
between concepts. And this is a very useful notion
in natural language processing. So how can you do this at scale? Clearly, we're going to
have a combinatorial event space and a large
number of observations. And this is the sort of thing
that a framework like Spark is really good at. So the big question here is,
what do our transformations and actions look like? We've already seen that the term
co-occurrence matrix for a text collection is a
large event space. It's basically a square matrix. And it's very sparse. And basically, what
we do is build up this matrix using mapping and
aggregating transformations. So as you can imagine, we
can do this as follows. We can take a particular
stream of key value pairs. In this case, the key could
be a document or sentence ID. And the value could be the
document or sentence string. Let's assume that we're
doing co-occurrence defined by the
terms co-occurring in the same sentence. You can imagine that a
natural map or task here is to window over the
input documents string, emitting pairs of tokens
that co-occur as we have defined previously. So we have a document ABCAC. And we're going to emit the
following pairs of tokens in a count of one. So AB is the first token that
co-occurs with a count of one. BC-- or AC, so A
and C. So basically, all of the combinations of
tokens with a count of 1. And then we'll sum up all
of these pairs in a reducer. And lucky for us, Spark
will do some combining automatically whenever possible. So the pseudocode
looks like this. Essentially, what
we're doing here is that the mapper
processes each document and emits intermediate
key value pairs for each co-occurring word pair
as the key and an integer of 1 as the value. This is accomplished
by two nested loops. The outer loop iterates
over all the words. And the inner loop iterates over
all the neighbors of each word, so all the co-occurring
terms for each word in the line of words that
is passed into our mapper. And then we're going
to emit into the stream the word, the neighbor,
and a count of one for all combinations. Our reducer reduces by key. So the key here is a
complex key of word-- of two words. So it's going to count
up all of these pairs. Add up all the counts
of all these pairs. So that's the pairs approach. It has some advantages
and disadvantages. It's easy to implement. It's relatively
easy to understand. However, on the flip side,
the biggest disadvantage here is that we're emitting
a ton of key value pairs into the stream, shuffling a
lot of data around the network. As you know, that can be
computationally expensive. So instead of emitting
all possible pairs, let's see what happens if
we take a stripes approach. The input to the mapper
is a sentence as before. This time the mapper
emits an associative array where the key is a
term, and the array holds the key value
pairs where each key is a term which co-occurs with
the primary key and the values are the count. So we're going to keep
a dictionary in memory, an associative array. We're going to keep
all of the neighbors. This time the primary
key here is A. And all the neighbors are
inside of our associative array with the counts of
their co-occurrences. B co-occurs with A once,
C co-occurs with A twice, et cetera. We're going to emit this
entire stripe into the stream. The reducers can then aggregate
these associative arrays by doing element-wise
summations for each primary key. So if the reducer receives
this associative array and this associative
array, it can add values for each
internal key element-wise. And again, here's the pseudocode
for the stripes approach. We still have an outer loop and
an inner loop in the map phase. But this time, we're
accumulating a dictionary in order to emit
the entire stripe at the end of the outer loop. So here we're-- instead of
just the word pairs and counts, we're emitting just the word
and an entire associative array of all of the
neighbors and counts. The main advantage
here is that we are shuffling a lot less data. And by using reduce
by key, we're giving Spark an opportunity
to do some combining for us behind the scenes. On the flip side, we're limited
in terms of the event space. So in other words, we cannot
afford to make our associative arrays larger than will fit
in memory on a single machine. So which is faster,
stripes or pairs? The chart presented
here is from experiments on a Hadoop cluster
with 19 slaves, each with two single core
processors and two disks. More information can be found
on this in the Lin and Dyer book in chapter 3. However, we can see that
the stripes approach, the bottom line is much faster. And it doesn't grow as
quickly as the pairs approach. So here's our running time
on the y-axis and number of observations. And we can see that the running
time for the stripes approach-- or sorry-- for
the pairs approach increases quite quickly. Whereas the stripes
approach, the running time stays relatively low. This is the MapReduce
Hadoop implementation. We can assume that the Spark
implementation will be similar, but it's still interesting
to see a similar experiment conducted for the
Spark implementation exercise for the reader. In summary, the stripes
approach is faster, but we have to be mindful
of managing memory. The pairs has more
partition and sort overhead, but can handle data with
potentially large skew.