So let's talk about relative
frequency some more. We talked about
co-occurring terms and we talked about
relative frequencies. Now let's talk about
relative frequencies for co-occurring terms. A very prominent task in
text mining applications is computing the
word co-occurrence of pairs of words in a large
collection of documents. These co-occurrence
counts can be converted into relative
frequencies using order inversion--
we've seen this before. Relative frequencies
qualify better for tasks like document
classification, information retrieval, search
plagiarism detection, as they are normalized
co-occurrence counts. Relative frequencies
of word co-occurrences can be computed by partitioning
and grouping of composite keys, similar to how we
did secondary sort. So previously, we looked at
calculating the number of times the pairs of words co-occurred. Now the goal is to calculate
the relative frequencies of these pairs of words. In the stripes approach
using the output from the previous section,
it's relatively trivial to calculate all relative
frequencies for a given word in a single pass over the data. So for each term, we
simply sum the number of all co-occurrences
inside the associative array and place us in the denominator. And notice that no
shuffling is required. What about in the
pairs approach? So how might one compute
relative frequencies with the pairs approach? Remember that in
the pairs approach, the reducer receives the term
pair as the key and the count as the value. And from this alone, it's
not possible to compute the relative frequencies since
we don't have the marginal, the piece that goes
in the denominator. So to make this work, we
must define the sort order of the pair so that the keys are
first sorted by the left word, and then by the right word. Given this ordering, we can
easily detect if all pairs associated with the word we
are conditioning on-- in other words, the first word-- has been encountered. Think back to our
Hadoop word count logic. Then, in the reduce
phase, we can go back through the
in-memory buffer, compute the relative frequencies
and then emit those results in the final key value pairs. So to do this, there's
just one more modification necessary to make this work. We must ensure that all pairs
with the same left words are sent to the same partition. And this, unfortunately, does
not happen automatically. Recall that the default
partition error is based on the hash value of the key. And in this case,
the word pair modulo the number of partitions. So for a complex key, the
role bike representation is used to compute
the hash value. And as a result, there is no
guarantee that, for example, dog,aardvark will end up in the
same partition as dog,zebra. So to produce the
desired behavior, we must first define a custom
partitioner that pays attention only to the first word. So for example,
we must make sure that all pairs with
the first word dog end up in the same partition. So this will indeed work. But it still suffers from the
same drawback as the stripes approach in that as the
size of the corpus grows, so does the vocabulary size. And at some point there will
not be sufficient memory to store all of the
co-occurring words and their counts for the
word that we are conditioning on inside our associative
arrays and the memory buffer on the reduced side this time. So for computing the
co-occurrence matrix, the advantage of
the pairs approach is that it doesn't suffer
from any memory bottlenecks. So is there a way to modify
the basic pairs approach so that this
advantage is retained? And as it turns out,
such an algorithm is indeed possible, although
it requires the coordination of several mechanisms. The insight lies in
properly sequencing data presented to the reduce phase. If it were possible to
somehow compute, or otherwise obtain access to, the
marginal in the reducer before processing
the joint counts, the reducer could simply
divide the joint accounts by the marginal to compute
the relative frequencies. And this notion of
before and after can be captured in the
ordering of the key value pairs, which can be
explicitly controlled by us, the programmer. So to compute
relative frequencies, we modify the mapper
so that it additionally emits the special
key in the form of W sub I's, this is word 1,
and the asterisk character with a value of 1. That represents the
contribution of that word pair to the marginal, the total
count of co-occurring pairs with that word. And then, through
the use of combiners, these partial
marginal counts will be aggregated before being
sent to the reducers. Alternatively, an
in-mapper combining pattern can be used to even more
efficiently aggregate marginal counts. So we always want to aim
to emit as little data to the stream as possible. OK so let's walk through
this code example. On the right, we have the Spark
API calls, and on the left, we have our function
definitions. Our data set consists
of two sentences. So we have a data set consisting
of the sentence dog aardvark pig banana, and the
sentence bear zebra pig. And we want to calculate
the relative frequencies of the co-occurring pairs
within those sentences. So skipping the function
definitions for a moment, our actual API calls are going
to call the flat map function. I'm going to pass the make
pairs function to the flat map functions such that we're
emitting single word pairs and counts. Our reduce by key is going
to use the add function. So we're going to be summing
the counts of our word pairs. Then, we're going to
pass a special partition function called
partition by word, which is going to use only
the first word as the key. And then the map
partition function performs operations
within each partition. So within each
partition, we're going to calculate the
relative frequencies. And this true
parameter just says to preserve our
partitioning scheme. The last bit here,
glom function, just returns the values
inside of each partition in a separate list so that we
can see what ended up where. OK. So our make pairs function
takes in a sentence. We're going to split the
sentence on the space. So now we have a bunch of words. For each word pair in the
combinations of words-- so this is just a
place on function that computes all
the combinations in this list of words. We're going to yield
into the stream word one, and asterisk with a count
of 1, as well as the word pair with a count of 1. So that's what
our flat map does. In our reduce by
key function, we're going to use the
Python add function just simply to sum
all of the values. And then our partition by
word custom partition function is going to return the hash
value of the first word. So this is what we're
partitioning on. This last piece
here, map partitions, is what does the
bulk of the work. We're going to calculate the
relative frequencies of all of these word pairs that have
been emitted to the stream. So given that we have
all of the values, we have access to all of
the values within our map partitions per partition,
we can sort these according to our complex key. So we're going to sort
according to the word pair. That will ensure that
everything with the first word and asterisk will appear
before any other word pairs. We'll just initialize
some values, and then we'll
follow this pattern that we've seen lots
of times before where, as we see words in
the stream, we're summing up the totals first. So if the second
word is an asterisk, we know those are the totals. So we're going to
increment the totals. Once we see a
different word, we're going to clear
that and increment the next totals, and so on. And this is a pattern
that we've seen before. In order to compute relative
frequencies with the order inversion pattern,
we need to make sure we're doing a few things. So first of all, we need
to emit a special key value pair for each co-occurring
word pair with the asterisk. We need to control the source
order of the intermediate key so that the pairs
representing the marginals are computed first. We define a custom
partitioner so that the pairs where the
first word is the same always end up in the same partition. And then, we leverage our
good old word count design pattern from map produce to
calculate the marginals, which we can then use to divide
the word count pairs. Next, we'll use this pattern
to build an inverted index. So I will see you
in the next section.